♪ Opening Song ♪
[SEIJIRO]
Say, Fuki.
[FUKI]
Yes?
[SEIJIRO] Your contract with us
goes through, what, next year?
[FUKI]
Yes. That's right.
[SEIJIRO] So, do you have
any plans after that?
Do you have a job waiting for
you back home, or anything?
[FUKI]
No. Not yet.
Well... would you...
Uh, never mind.
We can talk later.
Oh! There's the first star!
[FUKI]
Master Seijiro. Look at this.
At what?
[FUKI] There's a string
hanging down from the sky!
A string?
Can't you see?
Where's it coming from?
--[INFANT crying]
--[FUKI] Now, now.
There's nothing to cry about.
You'll wake up
everybody in the house.
Looks like we'll
have to sleep outside.
Now look.
You see all the pretty stars?
That's strange. That star.
I wonder what happened to it.
The one with
the long tail, remember?
[SEIJIRO] Just a moment.
Did you really see this thing?
A long tailed star? Why, yes.
Where was it and when?
That way, last night.
[SEIJIRO]
Can you be more specific?
[FUKI] There. I think.
It went that way.
It sort of zig-zagged
and flickered
on and off as it moved.
Odd behavior for a comet.
But if you're right, it would
be the find of the century.
All right! If it's there,
I'll discover it!
You're... Fuki, right?
Well done, Fuki!
[SEIJIRO] As it turned out,
I never found that star.
Fuki had come to us
as a nurse for my baby sister
who had a bad case of colic.
Because of the strange things
she used to talk about--
like the star with the tail--
most folks thought she was
a little... peculiar.
[VILLAGERS calling out]
Fuki!
Fukiiii!
[SERVANT A]
We've looked everywhere, sir.
There's no trace.
[FATHER] This is pointless.
Such an ungrateful girl.
She probably just
got tired of working--
[SEIJIRO]
That's not true, Father!
Fuki wouldn't
run out on us like that!
I told you what happened!
She went to grab
that string she saw
hanging from the sky and
vanished in front of my eyes!
Come now, young master.
If you must make up a story,
surely you can come up
with something better than that.
But I'm telling the truth.
[SEIJIRO] Fuki, where in
the world have you gone?
[footsteps]
Huh?
What in the world?
[FUKI]
What's this?
Where am I?
What happened?
That man. Who is he?
Why am I... walking...
...down a mountain path...
with him?
And who... am I?
[fire crackling]
There. Here, drink this.
[GINKO] Come on,
it'll help you get better.
I can't spend
the rest of my life
looking after you, you know.
You do want to get back
to your old life, don't you?
Old... life?
You mean you've
lost your memory?
That's just great.
This is gonna be a problem.
You've been exposed to
a powerful mushi influence
and now you're caught between
the mushi world and ours.
Other people probably
can't even see you.
That white thread
growing out of your hand...
Touching it was probably
the cause of your condition.
If we don't do something,
you'll keep drifting away
from humanity.
But what can we do?
You seem to know a great deal
about what's happened.
I don't know,
but this is my profession,
so I'll do my best.
[FUKI]
Eeh!
Oh. That's right.
It's bitter.
[GINKO] Hm... Your color's
looking a lot better.
You think so?
Come on. Let's go.
[FUKI]
Huh?
Where are we going?
[GINKO]
We need to find a village.
You'll recover faster if
you're around other people.
If your memory
doesn't come back soon,
you should stay at the nearest
village until you're better.
Now, let's see...
Which way should we go?
What's that? There's something
glowing in the ground!
Ah. I forgot you'd be able
to see it in your condition.
Take care. What you see
is the river of light.
[FUKI]
What makes it glow?
[GINKO] It's filled
with schools of koki:
embryonic mushi, swimming
together in the stream.
Mushi. They're the glowing
things in the shadows.
Or that I see floating about in
the air like living dust mites?
[GINKO]
That's right.
Ah. Lovely.
[GINKO]
Don't stare at it!
Huh?
[GINKO] The glow
is deadly to the eyes.
If you look at it too long,
you won't be able
to see sunlight anymore.
There's a river of light
in the sky too, you know.
Every night you can
see it glimmering
with the light
of a thousand stars.
Look at that instead.
You're right.
It's... It's like a
reflection of the other.
[GINKO]
Yes, but not as dangerous.
Don't confuse the one
for the other.
[FUKI]
I slept so well last night.
The little mistress didn't
cry at all for a change.
Thank goodness.
What's wrong?
Oh no! I have to get back!
Wait. You mean
your memory's returned?!
[gasps]
There! My village lies
at the foot of that mountain!
My word.
You're Fuki, aren't you?!
The girl who disappeared?!
[FEMALE VILLAGER A]
I don't believe it!
[MALE VILLAGER A]
Incredible!
[FEMALE VILLAGER B]
Where have you been?
I was... in the mountains.
[MALE VILLAGER A]
We searched the mountains
from top to bottom!
Where were you hiding?
I wasn't! I was by the river
when I tugged on a string I saw
dangling down from the sky.
After that,
everything went black
and when I came to,
I was in the mountains.
That's all I know.
There she goes again
with that talk!
Did you run away and come back
because you were frightened?
If so, it's too late
for you now.
The master has already hired
a new nurse to replace you.
But I...
[SEIJIRO]
Fuki!
Seijiro!
[SEIJIRO]
Are... Are you all right?!
[FUKI]
Yes.
[SEIJIRO]
What happened?
[FUKI] I was lost.
This man, he saved me.
There's no way I can
begin to repay you.
Please, won't you
stay the night at my house?
Come on, Fuki. Let's go home!
But I can't! They said you'd...
hired... someone...
Huh? No! I want you to
come back home as my bride!
[SEIJIRO] I've been waiting for
you to come back to ask you.
Is it all right?
[FATHER] Are you out of
your mind? I won't allow it!
Sorry. I was detained.
Are you all right?
Things sounded a little tense.
Heh. Well, I didn't expect
him to approve right away.
Now then, what did you
want to see me about?
I want you to tell me
about Fuki's disappearance.
Well, it's...
a little hard to believe.
That day, Fuki said
she saw a thread
trailing down from the sky.
She reached up as if
grabbing something.
At that moment,
I swear to you,
she was whisked up
into the sky...
...and vanished from sight.
No one believes me,
of course.
Until I saw it
with my own two eyes,
I never believed Fuki's stories.
I thought she was imagining it,
just like everyone else.
She wasn't.
It's a tenpengusa.
Huh?
A mushi that lives
high up in the sky.
Mushi?
[GINKO]
Yes.
They're born from darkness,
and they gather in the gloom
at the borders
with the light.
Fuki said she could
see them in the shadows
or floating in the air
like particles of dust.
Very few have
the gift of seeing them,
but they exist
in every corner of our world.
And you can see
the same things Fuki does?
[GINKO] I can. In fact,
it's how I make my living.
You know... I envy you.
Do you?
Careful what you wish for.
Fuki was a lucky woman,
but she's still under
the mushi's influence
and could be in great danger.
The tenpengusa appears
as a balloon-like object
with a tail that floats through
the sky above the Komyaku:
the underground river of light.
It feeds on other
luminescent airborne mushi.
At night, it resembles a comet
drifting through the heavens.
Because of this,
these mushi have also
been called
"The Wayward Stars."
[FUKI] It went that way.
It sort of zig-zagged
and flickered on
and off as it moved.
[GINKO] Occasionally, when there
isn't enough food in the sky,
the tenpengusa will
extend a tendril down
near the ground
like a fishing line.
It looks like a string.
When an animal touches it,
it's pulled skyward.
If it's too large to swallow,
the mushi spits it out
and it falls back to the ground.
Usually, the intended
victim is killed
when it strikes the earth.
Fuki was lucky.
She landed in a tree
and it cushioned her fall.
But, because she was
almost swallowed,
she is still deeply
under the mushi's influence.
That's why
you couldn't find her
when you searched the mountains.
She'd turned into something the
normal human eye couldn't see.
I've been giving her
this medicine
and it's helped a lot,
but she's still not cured.
That string in her hand
binds her to the sky,
trapping her between
our world and the mushi's.
[GINKO]
Her condition is delicate.
She needs more than
this medicine
to be normal once again.
She has to want to be normal.
Her desire to be human
must be stronger
than the pull of that string.
It's up to you
to make her feel that way.
Or... you could just tell
me to mind my own business.
No. I'll take your advice.
[SEIJIRO] Are you sure
you can't stay longer?
[GINKO] Thanks, but it's past
time for me to be moving on.
Well, please be sure
to stay in touch
because we'll be
having our wedding soon.
We'd be very honored
if you'd attend.
[GINKO] Me? That's very kind,
but you don't have to.
Please. You made the
whole thing possible, Ginko.
All right then. Fine.
If you insist, I'll stop by.
[GINKO] Soon after...
I received a letter.
[GINKO]
It was from Seijiro.
He was desperate.
Fuki had disappeared again.
[GINKO] What happened?
What went wrong?
[SEIJIRO]
Ginko, thank goodness.
No matter how many
times I implored him,
my father wouldn't
give us his blessing.
I begged him to change
his mind everyday.
The longer it dragged on,
the more miserable Fuki became.
At the same time,
Fuki's body seemed
to grow lighter until
even the slightest breeze
would send her
floating up into the air.
Soon, she was unable
to stay on the ground
no matter what she did.
Fuki, you've got to
come down from there!
I'm trying, I swear to you,
but I don't know how!
Listen to me, please.
I'm sure Father
will come around soon,
but if he sees you like this...
I'm sorry, but I can't
control it. It just happens!
All right, now just stay there.
I've got to go
and get your medicine.
I will.
[SEIJIRO]
Then... one day...
[gasps]
Fuki! Fuki?!
She was gone.
I haven't seen her since.
Didn't I tell you...
...you had to hold on to her
and make her feel human?
I tell you, I tried!
I wanted my family
to accept her. I did!
But... the way she was,
I couldn't.
And there's the problem.
You couldn't bring yourself
to accept her, could you?
And because of your rejection,
Fuki's human form faded away.
Faded... away?
She's still here, you just
can't see her anymore.
That's just ridiculous.
If you don't want to
lose her forever,
you must accept her
the way she is.
[SEIJIRO] Accept her?
I can't even see her!
So... how...?
You're the only
chance she has left.
Listen. Right now,
you are all that ties her
to our world, but just barely.
I don't... I don't know
what I'm supposed to do.
[SEIJIRO]
Fuki.
[FUKI] Master Seijiro,
why do you always
spend so much time
looking at the stars?
[SEIJIRO]
Hmm. I'm not sure I know.
I guess because no matter
how crazy the day is,
or what my worries are,
the stars are
always there at night.
They never let me down.
I find that very comforting
for some reason.
I understand. When the
little mistress is crying
and won't stop and I feel down,
I take my mind off it
by counting the stars.
That's why I feel so lonely
when the sun comes up.
One by one the stars vanish.
Before you know it,
there isn't a single one left.
It's sad.
Where do the stars all go
during the daytime, I wonder?
That's silly, Fuki.
The stars don't go anywhere.
They're still
right there in the sky.
Are you sure?
Of course I am.
The sunlight's far too strong
for us to see them, but...
...they're up there,
the same as they are at night.
[FUKI]
So they don't go anywhere.
Even though
we can't see them...
...they're still
up there shining for us.
[SEIJIRO]
Fuki...
[GINKO] No one in the village
had ever seen anything
quite like it before.
A hastily-arranged wedding
with a groom, but no bride.
What's more,
the groom behaved as if
there was nothing unusual, and
his new wife was by his side.
Or maybe you're over here.
[GINKO] Needless to say, his
behavior quickly led people
to gossip that
he had lost his mind.
[GINKO]
Then soon after,
he set up house alone
on the edge of the village.
As always, he continued
to talk with his absent wife
as if she was still there.
Eventually, the villagers
got used to it
and stopped coming by to gawk.
But, as time passed...
[FUKI]
Seijiro...
Hey. That girl. Isn't that...?
[gasps] That's Fuki!
When did she come back?
[GINKO]
Soon, everyone could see Fuki.
From then on,
they say Fuki remained
by her husband's side.
Her mysterious
disappearances ceased
and were eventually forgotten.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "A Sea of Writings."